---
title: "Community Resilience to Pandemics: An Assessment Framework Developed Based on the Review of COVID-19 Literature"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2022-10-01-IJDRR_103248
excerpt: ''
date: 2022-10-01
venue: 'International Journal of Disaster Risk Reduction'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijdrr.2022.103248'
citation: 'Suleimany, M., Mokhtarzadeh, S., & Sharifi, A. (2022). Community resilience to pandemics: An assessment framework developed based on the review of COVID-19 literature. International Journal of Disaster Risk Reduction (Q1-IF: 4.2). 103248.'
---

The COVID-19 outbreak in 2019 and the challenges it posed to communities around the world, demonstrated the necessity of enhancing the resilience of communities to pandemics. In this regard, assessment frameworks can play an essential role and guide resilience-building efforts. However, the lack of a comprehensive assessment framework has led to a focus on sectoral evaluation. This study aims to propose an integrated framework for assessing the pandemic resilience of communities. For this purpose, we rely on a systematic review of literature indexed in major academic databases. We have thoroughly analyzed a total number of 115 related documents to extract relevant criteria. Findings show that many criteria and factors affect community resilience to pandemics. By inductive content coding in MAXQDA software, we have categorized these criteria into five dimensions of Institutional, Social, Economic, Infrastructural, and Demographic. Good leadership and management, insurance and governmental support, planning and preparation, expertise and labor, and available equipment and technologies are the most important institutional criteria. Communication and collective identity, mutual support, public safety and protection, public awareness, and social justice are the influential social criteria. Economic sustainability and resource availability are criteria of economic resilience. Sufficiency of services, public spaces, housing tenure, and transportation system are the main criteria related to the built environment and infrastructural dimension. Finally, demographic resilience includes physical health, psychological well-being, life quality, and hygiene. Based on these criteria, this study develops an integrated evaluation framework that researchers can implement along with conventional assessment and ranking methods to determine the level of community resilience to pandemics.
