---
title: "Who benefits more from urban cooling strategies? Exploring climate justice in vulnerable groups’ access to blue-green infrastructure"
collection: publications
category: books
permalink: /publication/2023-10-01-BC_MHD
excerpt: ''
date: 2023-10-01
venue: 'Book: Climate Change & Cooling Cities'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-99-3675-5_15'
citation: 'Mokhtarzadeh, S., & Suleimany, M. (2023). Who benefits more from urban cooling strategies? Exploring climate justice in vulnerable groups’ access to blue-green infrastructure. In: Cheshmehzangi A et al. [Eds]: Climate Change & Cooling Cities. Springer Publication.'
---
Climate change and consequently global warming have made the decision-makers adopt a set of urban cooling strategies and policies. These policies, the most common of which is the development of blue-green infrastructures, lead to a decrease in the ambient temperature of cities. However, many studies suggest that the uneven development of these infrastructures has led to climate injustice in many cities. In other words, developing blue-green infrastructure to meet predefined standards is one side of the coin in coping with global warming, which indicates the efficiency of urban resiliency measures. While ensuring equitable access to these services and infrastructures is the other side, which shows the effectiveness of adaptation programs. Therefore, in this research, we have analysed climate justice in a case (Mashhad metropolis, Iran) considering vulnerable groups' access to blue-green infrastructure. We have implemented spatial analysis techniques and multi-scale geographic weighted regression (MGWR) model to identify the patterns of the aforementioned climate (in)justice at two scales of city and neighbourhoods. The results have indicated the significant climate injustice in low-income groups' access to blue and green infrastructures on both scales. Besides, the findings have depicted patterns of climate injustice in the access of sensitive age groups, the disabled, and immigrants to blue infrastructure. The most important reason for this injustice is the uneven distribution and development of blue infrastructures and their spatial concentration in the western half of the city which arose from the inequitable decisions of city management and planning. Although these findings are context-specific, the research process is applicable to any other context. We have also provided some recommendations to promote climate justice in the adoption of urban cooling policies.
